The Joe Rogan experience.
When you're training athletes for jujitsu.
And one of the interesting things about the Gordon Ryan conversation that I had
recently, I didn't know that you are Gary Tonin striking coach as well,
which is pretty amazing that you can do both,
that you can train them in both jujitsu and also train them in striking.
And I know you have a background in striking,
but still when you're training an athlete like Gary,
um, if you're training someone like Gordon for jujitsu,
I'm sure there's some emphasis on take downs,
but it's not a primary concern. The primary concern is submissions, right?
Like the, oftentimes we'll see, um, Gordon will sit, pull guard,
all these things that are not, uh, possible in MMA,
or very rarely what,
how much of a shift is it to train them for mixed martial arts?
Because you're clearly training him to strike and training him straight,
but ultimately this,
the skill set the best part of their skillset involves in submission.
Correct. Um,
the big challenge for most jujitsu players,
when they try to apply their craft and mixed martial arts is
one, can they get it to the ground?
That's a challenge in itself and an even greater challenges.
Can you keep it on the ground? Okay. It means nothing. If you take someone down,
if they just spring back out within three to five seconds,
it's it's energies spent it had no reward. Um,
a sad thing about jujitsu is that when it's practiced,
there's almost always a kind of gentleman's agreement that there's going to be a
top player and a bottom player. And if you start in the bottom,
you stay in the bottom. The moment you get into a mixed martial arts context,
that goes right out the window, and now you have two responsibilities.
You don't just have to pass your opponents gone from top position.
You have to hold them down while you're doing it. And that's, that's not easy.
Um, when you look at the notion of escape in jujitsu,
the overwhelming majority of escapes in the sport of jujitsu,
our escapes to God position. If you're mounted you elbow scape,
you put them back in God. If the guy's got side pin on you, your elbow escape,
put them back in God. If the guys behind you, you do a forward roll,
spin back into them, put them back and got 90% of the escapes in jujitsu,
our escapes back to God position.
And so when you start in bottom position,
you tend to stay in Portland position.
Now contrast that with the sport of wrestling,
where the overwhelming majority of escapes are escapes to standing back up to a
mutual position on your feet.
That means that when jujitsu players face other forms of grappling,
they're not trying to put us back in God.
They're trying to stand up and you do supplies,
never practice against when they're doing their daily training.
And so suddenly you've got a guy who just assumes for his entire career,
that if he's on top, the other, guy's going to play God,
and this guy's not playing God at all. He's just pushing your head,
stand it up and hit my up to his feet. Legitimacy guys.
I w I had taught position. Why did you play in God?
And so they're now put into an area where nothing in their training
has really prepared them for this. And jujitsu's going to have to mature.
I've always said you'd at,
Sue's one of the greatest products I ever saw in my life.
I wouldn't have invested 30 years of my life and to Jesus,
if I didn't believe that with all my heart and all my soul,
but like any great product,
it has its deficiencies jujitsu always had three major
deficiencies leg logs take downs.
And thirdly,
the one that no one talks about the ability to impose top position,
once it's gained
a huge part of my career has been the recognition
and the attempt to change these three great faults in jujitsu.
As much as I loved you to Sue,
we've got to take a step back and take an honest look at it.
It's got these three deeply entwined faults within it.
Leg was the most obvious one and a game,
which was supposedly all about control. Leading to submission.
There was an arbitrary rule at 50% of the body couldn't be attacked.
That was lunacy. And over the last 10 years, I believe it's fair to say,
we've reached a point where that is no longer the case.
That that is a great weakness within Judah.
So the younger generation of jujitsu,
I would match them against any grappling out in the world on lake logs with
no fear whatsoever that I couldn't have said that 15 years ago,
but things have changed.
Now we need to address you have the two great weaknesses.
Jujitsu has to do something about the crisis,
which is starting to emerge around takedowns and the ability to impose top
position.
What you're seeing among jiu-jitsu athletes now who go into mixed martial arts
is they just have to turn to other arts. They have to learn wrestling.
They have to learn these, and there's nothing wrong with that.
But the truth is that you did,
Sue has become a relative smaller and smaller component of mixed martial arts
rather than what it was when it first started,
which was a dominant force in mixed martial arts. Now for most of the athletes,
jujitsu is something you learn to stay out of some pesky submission holes.
It's not the be all end focus for most of the athletes in mixed martial arts.
Most of them are centered around kickboxing skills and race line. Um,
I think that we have done a great job of overcoming one out of
three great problems in jujitsu,
but there's still two more to go.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.